.TH smlnjtrans 1 "November 12, 2013"
.SH NAME
smlnjtrans \- A Standard ML program for generating SML/NJ transcripts
in LaTeX
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsmlnjtrans\fP \fISMLNJ PROMPTS FILE\fP...
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fISMLNJ\fP should be an SML/NJ executable, \fIPROMPTS\fP should be a
(possibly empty) string of prompt characters, and \fIFILE\fP...
should be existing files of SML code (optionally annotated with
overlay counters - see below).

\fISMLNJ\fP need not not be fully qualified; if necessary, it is fully
qualified using the value of the user's \fBPATH\fP environment variable.
\fISMLNJ\fP should be a shell script that invokes an SML/NJ heap image.

The characters of \fIPROMPTS\fP, which must be printable, non-white space
characters, plus the characters "-" and "=", must be \fISMLNJ\fP's prompt
characters.  Whenever \fISMLNJ\fP, or the SML code in the files, prompts
for input, it must do so by printing, at the beginning of a line,
one of the prompt characters followed by a single blank.
Furthermore, \fISMLNJ\fP, or the SML code in the files, must never begin
a line with a prompt character followed by a blank, when it is not
prompting for input.

\fBSMLNJtrans\fP runs \fISMLNJ\fP as a child process.  It discards the output
from \fISMLNJ\fP until it receives \fISMLNJ\fP's first prompt.  Then,
\fBsmlnjtrans\fP enters its main loop, in which it processes the files,
in order.

When it processes file, \fIFILE\fP, \fBsmlnjtrans\fP produces a LaTeX
transcript, \fIFILE\fP\fB.tex\fP, of the result of feeding the lines
of \fIFILE\fP to \fISMLNJ\fP.  The transcript is indented to
\fB\\leftmargini\fP, and is typeset at size \fB\\small\fP, in typewriter font.
The text of \fIFILE\fP is set in upright shape, whereas the output of
\fISMLNJ\fP is set in slanted shape.  The transcript may be included
in a larger document with the command \fB\\input{\fP\fIFILE\fP\fB.tex}\fP.

If file \fIFILE\fP is annotated with an overlay counter, and so has
the form \fIFIL\fP\fB:\fP\fICTR\fP where \fICTR\fP is a numeral, then
the LaTeX generated for \fIFILE\fP will use the Seminar document
class's cumulative overlays feature to single-step through the
evaluation of \fIFIL\fP.  The overlay corresponding to the first input
prompt will be \fICTR\fP.
.SH AUTHOR

.nf
Alley Stoughton
alley.stoughton@icloud.com
alleystoughton.us/smlnjtrans
.fi
